## belty
General purpose utility belt

### API


#### identity(arg?)

Helper method that returns the first argument passed in.

- **@param** {*?} input - Argument to be returned. This is completely optional
- **@returns** {*} This returns whatever is passed in.


#### noop

noop method! It takes no arguments and does not return anything. Useful when you need to setup an initial placeholder function.


#### pick(input, keys)

> Alias `pluck`

Method that extracts key value pairs from the input object.

- **@param** {object} *input* - Object to generate data from.
- **@param** {string|string[]|object} *keys* - Key/value pairs to extract from `input`.
- **@returns** {object} Object with key value pairs of only the matching *keys*.


#### omit(input, keys)

Method that take an object as the input and generates another **omitting** (without) the keys specified.

Opposite of *pick*

- **@param** {object} *input* - Object to generate data from.
- **@param** {string|string[]|object} *keys* - Key/value pairs to exclude from `input`.
- **@returns** {object} Object with key value pairs without the matching *keys*.


#### extend(target, ...)

Shallow copies all properties from the input objects (sources) into the target object. Source objects are processed left to right overriding whatever values already exist in the resulting.

- **@param** {object} *target* - Object to copy properties to.
- **@param** {...} *source* - The source objects to be merged into the target object
- **@returns** {object} Object with all source objects merged in.


#### merge(target, ...)

Deep copy all properties from the input objects (sources) into the target object. It merges objects and arrays into new structures from left to right overriding all other non array/object properties.

- **@param** {object} *target* - Object to copy properties to
- **@param** {object | object[]} *sources* - The source objects to merge into the target object
- **@param** {function} *updater* - Updater function called with current and next value, as well as the key in order to generate the final value for the particular object entry. The return value from this updater function is the final stored for the particular entry in the object. So be sure to return whatever value you want as the value.
- **@returns** {object} Object with all source objects merged in.

``` javascript
// {
//   data: [4, 5, 3],
//   misc: "modded"
// }

var source1 = {
  data: [1, 2, 3],
  misc: "random"
};

var source2 = {
  data: [4, 5]
};

var result = merge({}, [source1, source2]);
```

``` javascript
// The result of this is an object with the array entries concatinated
// and the exapnded out object property as generated by the updater
// method.
// {
//   data: [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6],
//   misc: {
//     expanded: "modded"
//   }
// }

var source1 = {
  data: [1, 2, 3],
  misc: "random"
};

var source2 = {
  data: [4, 5, 6]
};

var result = merge({}, [source1, source2], updater);

function updater(current, next) {
  if (Array.isArray(next)) {
    return current.concat(next);
  }
  else if (typeof next === "string") {
    return {
      expanded: "modded"
    };
  }

  return next;
}
```


#### value(input, args, context, defaultValue)
> Alias `result`

Method that uses the input to derive a return value.

If the input is a function, then the function is called with the args passed in. If the function returns a value, that value is then returned as the final result. Otherwise, if value is *not* undefined, then that's returned as the final value. Otherwise, the default value is returned.

- **@param** {*} input - input value to derived returned value from.
- **@param** {array} args - Arguments to be passed into the input when it is a function.
- **@param** {*} defaultValue - value to be returned in case the input is not defined.
- **@returns** {*} The derived value


#### objectValue(input, keypath)

Extract values from an input object for a given keypath.

- **@param** {object} input - Object to read `property` from.
- **@param** {string|number|array} keypath - keypath for the value in the object.
- **@returns** {*} The value for the corresponding keypath.


#### objectValues(input)

Gets the values from a map and returns them in an array. If an array is passed in, then the array is returned as is.

- **@param** {object | Array} input - Input to get values from
- **@returns** { Array } - Array of all the values extracted from the input object, or the array itself if the input is an array.



#### arrayToObject(input, fn)

Converts arrays to a literal objects with the array values as keys. You can optionally pass in a callback function that is called in order to generate the values that go in the final result. `fn` can also just be anything to be used as the value for each entry in the final result, otherwise `true` is used.

- **@param** { array } input - Items to convert to a map
- **@param** { *? } val - Can be a function, in which case it is called with the currect item in the array being processed in order to derive the value for the map entry. If a value of any other type is provided, that is used for populating each entry in the resulting map. Or if a value is not provided, all entries will be initialized to `true`
- **@returns** { object } Object will all the array values as keys and the derived values.



### License MIT
